In the last lecture, we created our own polyfill to handle browsers which kind of support accessing
the camera but not through the modern API.
From this point on after the second if statement, we can always call media devices get user media
because it will either return this promise which rejects and gives us an error or a promise which indeed
will access the user media and give us a result which is in line to the modern syntax.
So with that, we can now safely access this, hence what we don't have to do is again check for media devices
in a navigator because we know we can now safely access it.
Therefore I can call navigator, media devices and media devices as you know has the get user media method,
either natively or on older browsers or webkit Mozilla, this functionality which takes advantage of
their custom implementations.
Get user media takes an argument,
the constraints and that argument has to be a Javascript object which has two properties.
You don't have to pass them, you can only pass one, you can set video to true and you can set audio to true.
Now if you don't want to audio, just pass video, this basically means give me access to the video and then
it tries to find a way of giving you access to video on that device,
most of the time by using the camera of that device. So with that, we get get user media to get
access to the device camera,
then we know get user media always returns a promise, even with our custom implementation,
so then we can do something.
This will be the case that we actually have access, that this succeeds.
So here I get a function which gives me back a stream object,
actually the video stream, it's already using my camera.
One important thing, what about permissions? It will automatically ask me the first time I want to
access the camera.
So here when I call get user video,
excuse me, get user media
and I say that I want video access,
it will have a look at if I already have permission to access the camera and if not, it will show a
prompt to the user. If the user declines, we will not go to then
but to catch,
so it will throw an error,
otherwise we do get access and in future usages,
if we got permission, it will not ask again.
So let's also handle a catch case here.
Now here we get an error and we got various errors we could get. Now one error is that user declined to
give us access, another error could be here, that we have a browser which just doesn't have a get user
media method,
not even his own one
or maybe we are on a device which just doesn't have a camera, like a desktop PC. In all these cases
here,
we want to show the image picker instead.
Now we got that image picker area here, an image picker area refers to that div surrounding the image
picker.
So we want to show this because by default, it's hidden and we want to show it if we know we're on a device
where we don't have access to the camera.
So pick image by default if
we have a look at our CSS file, display is none.
Here in the catch method, I actually want to show it.
So the image picker area,
I'll set the style, the display to block
here to show that. Now the user has a chance of at least picking an image there and we'll see this in
action in a second. In the then block,
I of course want to get access to the camera itself though.
So here, I now want to simply output that stream we got. For that,
we'll use that video player because we got a video stream, a video element can display the stream. So I'll access
the video player element and there we have a source object property and I'll bind this to the stream.
This will then automatically play it because this player is set to be on auto-play which gives the
nicest experience if you just want to show an ongoing image of the device camera.
So with that, we got the video player set up,
of course we also need to show it though because it's also hidden by default.
If you check the feed.css, video and canvas both are display none.
So here, I want to set video player, the style, the display to block. And now just to round it up,
I want to make sure that whenever we close the modal, I set video player and and image picker to none again,
to go back to that original starting state because I will enable it
anyways once we do open the modal but just in case we close it and then remove access to the media,
we don't show it
the next time we open the modal. So we already initialize, we then open create, now in close,
I just want to do cleanup work,
image picker area, I'll set style display to none here and the same for the video player, here.
I want to set the style, the display to none, to go back to the starting state.
And I actually can already do this for the canvas here too even though we are not using it right now
but so that I don't forget,
reset this too.
Now with that all in place, let's see it in action
and since we changed our Javascript code, let's go to the service worker, bump up that static cache version
or give it any other name and then close that tab here.
That was wrong by the way,
first you need to refresh it,
now we need to close it again.
So we loaded it one more time,
this installs the new worker,
now we activate it by opening a new tab.
Let's have a look at how this works,
if we click the plus here, you'll see
that's me.
Now what you didn't see is and I'm just watching basically not in the camera most of the time because
I'm watching on my external monitor,
now what you don't see is that we are asked for whether we want to give this access.
So let me quickly click on this
i here next to my address and there I can
switch camera to use global default which is ask and I will do the same for location,
it was turned on due to testing for me.
Now I'll reload the page
and now we will see if I click the plus
now, we don't see a camera yet,
I have to click allow or block.
Well let me actually block this,
now you see the image picker,
that's our fallback,
so that's working great.
Now let me close this and reset this one more time,
so camera to ask again.
Now I need to reload the page again,
let's try it again
and allow it this time,
now you see the the picture,
so hello there.
This is an image,
this is nice
I hope, so
it's just a stream though, capturing, clicking that button doesn't do anything.
So the next step is to actually make it work
and we do that by obviously hooking up the button here and thereafter saving a snapshot of this
image
here right below or in place of that video player actually
so that is this is the image we then later send to the back-end. So let me close that and see you in the next lecture
when we actually make that capture button work.